All right.
Welcome back.
So we've seen ex-aide jars and we've seen fetch fetch of course is a more modern hipper version that
lets us send requests with a nice clean syntax.
The big drawback though is that it's not fully supported currently across all the major browsers which
is a pretty significant issue.
Eventually that shouldn't be a problem.
But in the meantime if you want to send requests and you want a nice clean syntax and you want it to
work in all browsers you can turn to third party libraries.
So we're going to take a look at two the first of which is Jey query.
The most popular javascript library of all time currently at least you probably come across it before
a lot of people like to use it for manipulating the DOM selecting elements adding event listeners.
Its slogan is it's the right.
Less do more javascript library.
So it simplifies the syntax and makes things easier generally to write than just plain Javascript.
So here's an example.
Sort of a classic example to fade an element in a pretty common thing that people want to do if you
don't use Jey query and you write it from scratch.
You have to define a function fade in 15 to 20 ish lines of code.
And if you do use J query you can replace all of that with a single line.
Assuming that you've required a query here you've imported it into your code so it saves you a lot of
space.
A lot of code a lot of time and the same thing applies not just for manipulating the dom or for selecting
elements but also for making requests.
So it's a nicer interface for sending SML HTP requests.
So there's an example a common task sending a get request taking the data that comes back and parsing
the Jaison Without Jay query it looks something like this.
And also with that fetch because we want this to work in all browsers we need to make an X amount of
requests.
We open it.
We wait for it to come back we'll do something with it with Jay Querrey.
It's pretty much a single line.
We'll talk a lot more about this get Jay some method and exactly how it works.
But it takes a common operation making a get request and parsing Jasen combines it into a single function.
So it's way easier as the slide says there are four J.A.G. methods.
We're going to take a look at.
But really there's just one really important one which is dollar signs Ajax.
The other three are just shorthand methods that actually call dollar sign that Ajax in their source
code and I'll show that to you later.
So dollar sign Ajax is the key method that everything else is built on top of.
So we're going to focus on that one first.
But before we get there the last thing I want to do in this video is just make sure everyone knows how
to include a query.
If you've never used it before so you can download it and include it just like you would any other script.
You can also use a CDN.
So on code does a query dot com they have a bunch of hosted CD ends.
You can pick one.
I'm going to be using Jay query 3 so pick uncompress minimize them whatever you want and then it gives
you a script that you can include So you can copy this script and come over to your subcompacts Adam
whatever you're using for an editor.
I'm going to use code pen and we can just include it here.
And to make sure it works can do something like dollar sign and let's just use this button.
I gave it an ID and just used dumb click which is a J Querrey thing.
And what we'll do when we click is just alerts to a query works.
See if it works perfect.
So that's one way of requiring Jey query.
If you are using code peno and you don't want to have these obnoxious scripts all over the place cluttering
your code you can also go up to this little settings icon on the javascript tab and you can quick add
this dropdown menu a whole bunch of different javascript libraries angular D-3 J queries that's what
we want not were you.
But Jay query save and close and it should work just the same way.
So that's where we'll stop.
I'm going to make a point of explicitly including the script just so if people are looking at the code
then they're not aware that you can quick add that it's clear what's happening with that.
Out of the way in the next video we'll dive into some code.